- [Instructor] In order to be successful in this course,
there are a few things that you need to know
so let's jump in.
First and foremost
you need to know the basic syntax of Java.
Now I don't expect you to be an expert in the Java world,
but I do expect to be able to read and write
some basic flow control
and some basic aspects of the language itself.
I also expect you to be able to use common libraries
from the Java and Javax packages,
and I expect you to understand how imports work
and how to import code from those packages.
Now for this course we're going to use a Java 11 baseline,
but most of what we're going to do
should work with older versions of Java like 1.8
and it should be relatively future-proof
until the JSR spec is updated.
We're also going to use Maven throughout this course
and we're going to do so in order to set up our environment,
so I need you to use basic Maven commands.
Now I'm going to show you those commands
but you will need to have Maven installed on your system.
I do want you to understand the basic concepts
of dependency management in importing libraries.
Now for this course,
basically, we're going to use Maven
to bring out driver onto the class path
so that we can use it
in any other logging
that we may want to add to our application.
We're not going to do a whole lot
but we will leverage it.
So I do ask you to have it installed
and understand the basics.
Now in this course,
we're also going to use Docker
and we're going to do it to actually run our database.
Now there's a reason that we're going to use Docker
and that's because it's the easiest path
for everybody to get a database running on their system
regardless of operating system.
If I had to show you how to install Postgres
on windows and then Ubuntu
and then Syntax
and then Windows
and then Mac
and then the next version of Windows,
it would be crazy.
With Docker, we can run it everywhere
simply by leveraging the Docker container.
Now I'm going to provide commands
to run it in Linux and Mac,
but it should be relatively similar
for a Windows environment.
Now I do want you to understand how to install Docker
on your machine
and I'm not going to show you how to do that,
but if you follow this link on the screen,
you can do it yourself,
with their very useful documentation.
Now there's a few other tools
that I'm going to use throughout this course.
I'm going to use a text editor
and the text editor that I use as Atom.
You do not have to use Atom,
you can use any text editor you want,
that's just what I choose to use.
I'm also going to use an IDE for all of my Java code.
Now I use IntelliJ ultimate edition.
You are free to use any IDE that you want.
I made us some generation of code,
but I promise you if you read the documentation on your IDE,
you will have very similar functions
for most of what I can do in IntelliJ.
I'm also going to leverage the terminal.
Now I'm on a Mac system
so the terminal will be BSD specific,
which is similar enough to Lenux
that most of the commands should work on both.
If you're on windows
you may need to make appropriate changes
but I'll explain what I'm doing
when I actually jump into terminal
and start typing things.
There won't be a lot of it but it is there.
The final piece of code that you're going to need
is you're going to need a Postgres client.
Now we're going to use Postgres as our database of choice,
because I love free and open source software,
and it is one of the better
free and open source relational databases today.
You will need that client side library
in order to baseline the database
that we're going to use throughout this course.
Now on my machine I can install just PSQL using Homebrew
and if you're on a Mac system
it's a great way to get PSQL on your machine.
You can always install the full Postgres package,
and if you choose to do that,
you don't necessarily have to use Docker.
I'm going to use Docker again because it's easier
but if you're doing the full install,
it kind of removes some of the needs of Docker,
but you're going to be on your own
as far as running the database,
if you install the full thing locally
and want to do so.
We're not going to use PSQ all lot,
but we will use it a few times.
So it's important to make sure you've got it running.
Now there is OS-specific documentation
at the link on your screen,
on how to install Postgres
and a search of the web
will show you everything you need to know
about just getting the client library on your machine.
One side note,
many IDEs including IntelliJ ultimate edition,
have a built in editor
that allows you to use the driver
and actually allow you to execute SQL statements
on your machine.
If you want to go that route
it's super easy
and then you don't have any downloads,
but again, you're going to be on your own
if you choose to do that,
but if I were you,
that's actually the way I would go,
because it's simple and easy,
especially if you're using an IDE
like IntelliJ or Eclipse
or NetBeans that have those libraries built in,
but that's all you need
and we're ready to get started
with a little bit of JDBC code.